# Friday November 20, 2020 at 10:00am PST

## Agenda
* Deprecation of Circle CI
* Discuss making test data optional when building from source
* Discuss alternate ways of adding\packaging test data for operators


## Attendees 
* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Jacky Chen (Microsoft)
* Anna Jung (VMware)

## Notes
* Deprecate CirCle CI:
  Ashwini:
  Jacky: Current Circle CI tests pytorch\caffee2 in ONNX. This is not maintained well and we see a lot of errors because of usage of deprecated operators etc so it blocks improvements in Shape Inference.
  Conclusion: Circle CI is not adding to any ONNX test coverage plus this is not being maintained so we can deprecate this.
  
* Discuss making test data optional when building from source
Ashwini: Previously Michał from OP Sig had opposed this. Need to get his feedback before we conclude
Anna: It makes sense
Jacky: There are issues reported related to problems in installing test data. Having this option can enable users to build and install from source easily.

* Discuss alternate ways of adding\packaging test data for operators
Anna: Need sometime to look into this
Jacky: Utilize version converter to solve this issue? (will need version converter to be always uptodate)
Ashwini: May be difficult to use version converter for cases where inputs and outputs are hard coded. Planning to submit a proposal for restructing test data and options for packaging test data
How to package\ship test data so that the runtimes dependant on the test data can easily pick it up.

## Action items
* Ashwini: Work with Michał to understand his concerns for making test data optional when building from source. Submit a proposal for restructing test data and options for packaging test data
* Anna: Understand the context behind the test data restructure and come up with ideas.
* Jacky: Formalize on version converter solution
* Next meeting:
    * Conclude on making test data optional
    * Discuss test data restructure and packaging
    * Open for more topics
