# Tuesday July 08, 2025 at 22 CEST

## Access
* use zoom-link at https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/lfai-onnx?view=month

## Participants
* Saurabh, Andreas, Rama, Justin, Christian

Next Steps
* Andreas to create a PR documenting the meeting discussion and decisions regarding functions and operators.
* Saurabh to create an example of how to create a function, following Rama's guidelines.
* Andreas to work on automating and speeding up the ONNX release process, aiming for a 4-month cadence.
* Justin to validate the compiler flags issue independently and explore options for resolving the Microsoft compiler/protobuf issue.
* Christian to reply to the email from the Safety Working Group regarding potential synergies in testing efforts.
* ONNX community to document the process for proposing and adding functions to the ONNX standard, including guidelines for PRs.
* ONNX community to consider implementing a more formalized process for proposing changes, similar to Python's PEPs.

## Agenda
* 1.) Status of Github Enterprise Transition
* 2.) Proposal of Saurabh
* 3.) Release 1.19 - Compiler Issues Halt Release Cuts



Summary
## 1) Status of Github Enterprise Transition
* Andreas and Ganesan discussed the usage and limitations of the LFS system, noting that they frequently hit the 250 GB limit within the first few days of the month. They considered options such as adding a funding button or migrating to another repository organization. 

## 2) Proposal of Saurabh
  * Introduce "Orthogonal and Intermediate release cycles for function sets": Allow for ONNX releases that are not tied to major opset version updates but "function sets". Functions that are decomposable into existing native ops. This is important to cut TTM for ONNX based model deployment on devices (CPU, GPU, specialized accelerators aka NPU).
  * Implement "Function Set Versioning: Create a versioning system for ONNX function sets, analogous to the current opset versioning, to improve tracking and management of function library updates.
  * Streamline the Function Release Process: Ensure the contribution process for new or updated functions is efficient and does not deter contributors with unnecessary delays or complexity. I would lean towards an automated review and approval process for function releases. (Without human involvement)

### Device-Agnostic Models and Versioning Strategies
Saurabh discussed the challenges of creating device-agnostic models and proposed investing in functions using ONNX to improve performance and reduce fragmentation in the ecosystem. He explained the distinction between local and global standard functions, with the latter being standardized and accessible to runtime owners. Andreas suggested exploring alternative versioning strategies, such as date-based releases, to enhance stability and agility, but Saurabh agreed to consult Rama for a more detailed explanation of the implications. Ganesan emphasized that the focus should be on agility rather than version numbering.

### Streamlining ONNX Function Operations:
The team discussed the process for introducing new function operations in ONNX, with Saurabh proposing a separation between functions and operators to prevent stalls in the specification evolution. They agreed that functions should not be blocked by single companies, requiring instead significant community opposition to stall them. The group also addressed the need to speed up release cycles, with Andreas working on automating CI pipelines to reduce the current 6-month release interval to approximately 4 months. Ganesan highlighted that the main bottleneck in function implementation is not technical but rather the effort required for PR creation and review, suggesting that Python-only implementation might not be the best approach given the need for C++ access without Python runtime dependence.

### Formalizing Function Proposal Process:
The team discussed the process for introducing function Ops to the ONNX standard, concluding that it should not be stalled unnecessarily and the community should be free to add functions. They agreed to create a more formal proposal process similar to PEPs in the Python community, with Andreas taking responsibility for drafting a PR and Saurabh documenting the process for proposing new functions. The group decided to inform the Operator SIG about the new infrastructure ingredient called functions, which uses operators but doesn't concern them directly.

### Standardizing Functions Across Opsets:
The team discussed the implications of standardizing functions across different opsets. Saurabh suggested that frequent releases could help address the need for new operators, potentially eliminating the need for a separate orthogonal function set. Justin proposed the idea of adding new functions to existing opsets without incrementing the opset number, which Andreas expressed concerns about due to potential compilation issues. Ganesan suggested considering a separate function opset domain, similar to the existing onnx.ai standard.

### Function Versioning Implementation Challenges:
The team discussed the complexity of implementing versioning for functions, with Justin proposing a separate domain for function updates to allow faster cadence without affecting the main offset version. Saurabh emphasized that global standard functions would only have incremental updates, simplifying the approach. Andreas and Ganesan expressed concerns about adding unnecessary complexity, noting that while a separate versioning scheme might provide benefits, it could also introduce complications in implementation and evolution.

### Function Versioning and Compatibility Discussion:
The team discussed function versioning and compatibility, with Justin proposing a backward-compatible approach where new functions can be defined without version bumps, and only maintaining implementations for the latest onnx. Saurabh agreed this simplifies the system and they should document this approach in the PR. 

## 3) Release 1.19 - Compiler Issues Halt Release Cuts ##
The team discussed compiler issues blocking their release cuts this month, specifically a Microsoft protobuf problem causing internal compiler failures. Justin presented three options: validating the Flex functionality independently, waiting for the Protobuf release (with associated risks), or reaching out to the MSVC Compiler team for guidance. Andreas inquired about Docker containers for Windows builds, noting concerns about external Github runner changes affecting their release pipelines, though Justin was unsure about Docker solutions for Windows.
