# Tuesday January 27, 2026 at XX CEST

## Access
* use zoom-link at https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/lfai-onnx?view=month

## Participants
* 
## Agenda
1) Meeting setup: Move meeting time?
2) Review OpenSSF Best Practising
3) Roadmap:
   * How can we solicit feedback and insights into priorities and pain points of the community (on a short time scale)? I'd like to discuss different avenues available to us.
   * A non-exhaustive list of options to be discussed is soliciting feedback from SIGs or if we want to make a public call for feedback.
4) RFC template
   * Should we introduce/revive a templated RFC process for new operators and major features akin to Rust's RFCs or Python's PEPs?
5) Release 1.20: Release Process Review, Lessons Learned

## Open issues from recent meetings
* Andreas: Adapt Meeting time in LFX => Done
* Christian: Create a Google Form to solicit community feedback on roadmap priorities and circulate it via relevant channels (e.g., homepage, downstream projects, internal contacts) for 2-4 weeks.
* Christian: Review RFC templates from other projects (e.g., Rust, Python) and draft a PR for an RFC template in the ONNX repository for community proposals and new features.
* Christian: Check with Conda-forge experts and investigate if release candidates can trigger automatic PRs on Condoforge, and consider automating this process.
* Justin: Fill in the new RFC template with details about the "equivalence of graphs" proposal once Christian provides the template.
* Christian: Coordinate with Justin (and optionally Javier) to schedule a broader discussion about the "equivalence of graphs" RFC after the template is filled out.

### Meeting Schedule and Roadmap Updates: ###

The team discussed changing their meeting schedule, agreeing to move one of their monthly meetings to 9 AM Justin's time (6 PM their time) on the 27th, while keeping the other meeting at its current time. They also discussed the need to improve their roadmap process, with Andreas suggesting a more structured approach that would involve Christian and Jesse in the organization.

### ONNX Roadmap and Community Input: ###

* The team discussed creating a roadmap for ONNX, focusing on prioritizing and structuring future developments.
* Christian proposed using a Google form to gather community input on desired features and improvements over the next 12 months, with a 4-week collection period.
* Andreas suggested including an option for presenters to share their ideas live, potentially with recordings for YouTube.
* The group agreed to create a low-effort feedback form to identify community priorities and align them with their own goals, before selecting items for the roadmap that they can realistically commit to completing.
* The Google Docs form should gather community feedback for the roadmap, focusing on pain points and potential projects to implement within the next 12 months. He suggested that the roadmap process should involve a structured approach to collecting ideas, rather than the previous unstructured method. The group agreed to move forward with creating an RFC template, inspired by other projects like PEP and Rust, to provide a structured format for proposing new features. Justin supported the idea of using a template to improve clarity and accessibility of proposals.
* The team discussed restructuring and consolidating proposal templates, with Christian agreeing to create a pull request for a new template based on existing projects.


### Release 1.20 Review
* They reviewed the release process for version 1.20, noting that changes to build scripts caused issues with downstream projects, though the overall publishing workflow was deemed successful.

### Streamlining Build and Testing Processes:
* The team discussed improvements in their build and testing processes, noting that recent changes have made things simpler and more reliable than a year ago.
* Christian mentioned that they currently have Red CI running on CondaForge, and Justin highlighted issues with the object library and code generator compatibility across different platforms.
* Christian suggested that building ONNX and its runtime on CondaForge could serve as an indicator of broader build issues, and he committed to investigating ways to automate the release process, potentially with help from CondaForge experts.

### Python Deprecation and Support Strategy: ###
* The team discussed deprecation policies for Python versions and platforms, with Andreas highlighting the need for a clearer strategy while Justin emphasized focusing on maintenance costs.
* They agreed that if a problem arises with an obscure platform or Python version, they should consider dropping support rather than investing in fixes, unless downstream dependencies require it. The conversation also touched on Justin's project to compile ONNX Runtime to WebAssembly for browser-based optimization, which is currently facing challenges with CMake and Python detection.

### Graph Equivalence in ONNX Models: ###
* Justin and Christian discussed an RFC about representing equivalence of graphs for compiled ONNX models to handle different hardware vendors' compilation processes. They explored the similarities and limitations of using functions in ONNX, noting that functions could be problematic for existing tools and might not be ideal for representing equivalent subgraphs.
* The discussion concluded that while the runtime would need to make more complex decisions about which equivalent subgraph to use, the current design does not require a deterministic method for the runtime to interpret the graph.

### Graph Optimization Across Runtimes: ###
* Christian and Justin discussed the challenges and potential solutions for optimizing graph operations across different runtimes and hardware targets. They explored the trade-offs between ahead-of-time and just-in-time compilation, considering factors such as runtime-specific optimizations and the portability of optimization hints. They also discussed the possibility of creating a shared optimization library in Rust or Python to facilitate cross-runtime compatibility. Justin explained the need for standardizing the representation of equivalent graphs while allowing for runtime-specific optimizations, such as binary code attachments for NPUs. They agreed that further discussion and collaboration with a broader group would be beneficial to address open questions, such as weight sharing across different hardware targets.
