<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday June 26, 2019 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda
* Review the operator document
* Discuss contributors
* Organize operators by domain

## Attendees
* Emad Barsoum (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Ke Zhang (Microsoft)
* Darren S Crews (Intel)
* Dilip Sequeira (NVidia)
* Milan Oljaca (Qualcomm)
* Wei-Sheng Chin (Microsoft)

## Notes
* We spend most of the meeting going through the operator proposal document.
* We need to update the text of the proposal document to clarify more about function versus operator.
* Some of the points can be merged into one.
* Goal: end of next week to have a sign off on the operator document.
* When submitting new operator add some examples in the description text.
* Domain work, sync with Edge workgroup to make sure no overlap.
* Contention point, each PR need two sign off from the contributor list.
    * Should we require the two sign off from two different company?
    * Or from any two in the contributor group?
* We can change the above, we can remove or add people to the contributor group.
    * Which approach should we start with?

## Action items
* ebarsoum - update the operator proposal based on the feedbacks.
* ebarsoum - check Alibaba auto generated ONNX operator tests.
* Everyone - review the proposal and sign off by end of next week (Friday July 5).
* Everyone - send ebarsoum the list of name to be in the initial contributor list.
* ebarsoum and Michal - select 5 operators PR to discuss.
* Next meeting:
    * Organize operators by domain.
    * Discuss 5 operator PRs.
    * Discuss contributor list and logistic.

