<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday November 6, 2019 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda
* Dynamic shape proposal:
    * Link: https://1drv.ms/w/s!Aq5Cu4d76dsCjbFWbJajaHnH25CkXQ?e=Dabhup
    * Link: https://github.com/goldgeisser/onnx/blob/master/docs/proposals/StaticShape4DynShapeOpsProposal.md
* Removing operator update

## Attendees
* Emad Barsoum (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Spandan Tiwari (Microsoft)
* Dilip Sequeira (NVidia)
* Itay Hubara (Habana)
* Scott Cyphers (Intel)
* Leonid Goldgeisser (Habana)

## Notes
* We discussed the dynamic versus static shape for accelerator.
* We focused on what need to be in the spec and what should be an implementation detail.
* Here the summary.
    * We will add a hint attributed to specify the max size.
    * This attribute is optional.
    * It can be set by the model creator or afterward.
    * The behavior of exceeding the max value is NOT defined by the standard.
    * There is no concept of dynamic versus static in ONNX, ONNX is a file format, it is up to the runtime to respect the hint and create a fixed size graph in-memory.
    * This attribute is optional and can be ignored by the converter.
    * The detailed design TBD.
* For removed OP.
    * Archive older operator.md for each release.
    * Add remvoed/deprecated OPs at the bottem of operator.md.

## Action items
* Emad Barsoum - submit the operator removal requirements to ONNX master.
* Leonid Goldgeisser - to write a final draft document for the dynamic shape and share it with the rest of the group.

