# Thursday April 15, 2021 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* ONNX 1.9 release date 4/16. Last call for comments.
* [PR 2625](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2625): FFT and iFFT ops
* [PR 3407](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3407): Type system extension for Optional<T> type
* [PR 3398](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3398): Type system extension for Sparse Tensors
* [PR 3412](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3412): Add bfloat16 type to Pow operator


## Attendees 

* Evgenya Stepyreva (Intel)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Scott Cyphers (Lightmatter)
* Rodolfo Esteves (Intel)

## Notes

### ONNX 1.9 release plan

* ONNX 1.9 release scheduled for 4/16 (tomorrow). Last call for comments. 

### FFT/iFFT

* PR has several comments that needs to be addressed before it can be merged.
  * Shape inference code needs minor fixes to handle statically unknown shapes.
  * Number of dimensions as attribute seems unnecessary.
  * Specification should clarify how the output is laid out.
* Several people have shown an interest in adding FFT ops to ONNX. We are open to adding
the op once the concerns mentioned in the PR are addressed.


### Optional Type

* [PR 3407](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3407) is under review.
* This is more of an infrastructure extension. No specific objections from the Operator SIG.
* More information in the PR explaining the motivation, intended usage and example operations would be helpful. 

### Sparse Tensor

* [PR 3398](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3398) is under review.
* Like the previous one, this type extension is more of an infrastructure extension.
The feeling was that supporting ops like sparse matrix multiplication would be helpful.
There was a discussion of the possibility of using mechanisms other than types for
a model to give a hint to the backend which nodes or tensors in the graph would benefit
from using a sparse representation.

### Pow operator

* [PR 3412](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3412) is under review.
* Recommendation was that this was straightforward and could be merged once comments
are addressed.


### Miscellaneous items
* It was felt that for future SIG meetings, adding a comment on PRs to be discussed might
be useful in cases where authors presence in the SIG meeting would be beneficial. This
would require planning for this a few days in advance of the meeting.

