# Thursday June 10, 2021 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Opens
* Infrastructure SIG updates
* [PR 3344](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3344): New version converter tests
* [PR 2625](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/2625): Follow up on FFT operators
* [PR 3431](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3431): New Bernoulli op/function
* [PR 3484](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3484): Accumulate attribute for scatter/gather ops

## Attendees 

* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Calvin McCarter (Lightmatter)
* Chun-Wei (Jacky) Chen (Microsoft)
* Evgeny Lazarev (Intel)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Matteo Salvarezza (Wolfram Research)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Tobias Würfl (Siemens)


## Notes

### Infrastructure SIG updates

* Next ONNX release is planned for the end of July. GitHub 
  Milestone is already created, please tag PRs which are planned for this release. 
  Nvidia will manage the release.

* Visibility of `onnx_proto` symbols on Windows was discussed. The issue is [described here](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/3319).
  These symbols need to be exported and be visible in order to use C++ APIs. There is a [PR with a proposed fix](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3371). 
  The review of this PR is planned for 1.10. Discussion to be continued in the PR.


### [PR 3344](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3344): New version converter tests

Matteo is working on a PR, which aims to ensure that operator version converter is up to date. 
The PR adds missing adapters which can upgrade operators from opset N-1 to N.

New tests are also introduced, which test the converter's upgrade path for all operations.
Tests create an operator at lowest possible opset version and update it to the highest possible version.
In order to pass each conversion step must succeed, shape inference must work 
and model checker must validate the upgraded model.

The tests also checks that all operators have upgrades. This will ensure that PRs introducing
operator changes must include an upgrade adapter. 
We should add instructions about adding an adapter to the ONNX documentation.

### [PR 3431](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3431): New Bernoulli op/function

New operation which defines a random number generator based on Bernoulli distribution. 
The operation is scheduled to be introduced in ONNX 1.10.

We discussed a general problem relating to operations which generate random numbers.
Each framework may have a slightly different pseudorandom number generator (RNG) logic.
Should we guarantee that the same random number is generated for a given seed?

If we cannot make this guarantee, we are faced with a problem for testing. Any model
which uses a RNG-based operator. This means we cannot provide model input/output for these models
and thus cannot create test cases.

Evgeny suggested that for unit tests we could use sample multiple random numbers and 
verify that they follow the correct distribution. This solution may not scale to larger models.

Michal suggested that we could consider adding specific values to the operators in a 
model which could be used during testing. 

Currently, we don't have a solution to this problem. We decided that we need to describe 
in the specification that these operators are non-deterministic. A seed value should ensure
that a number is reproducible in a framework, but it may not be reproducible across different
frameworks.

At this point we don't have tests for random number generating operators.
