# Thursday June 10, 2021 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Infrastructure SIG updates
* [PR 3344](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3344): New version converter tests
* [PR 3484](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3484): Accumulate attribute for scatter/gather ops
* [PR 3557](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3557): Grid sampler op
* [PR 3558](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3558): CastLike op
* Issue: treatment of "reflect" attribute in "Pad" op
* Proposed new "Dim" op

## Attendees 

* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Chun-Wei (Jacky) Chen (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Kevin Chen (Nvidia)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Rajeev Nalawadi (Intel)
* Rajeev Rao (Nvidia)

## Notes

### Infrastructure SIG updates

* Code-freeze date for next ONNX release is July 15th.
  Please ensure PRs to be included in the release are completed, reviewed, and merged by then.

* Visibility of `onnx_proto` symbols on Windows was discussed. The issue is [described here](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/3319).
  These symbols need to be exported and be visible in order to use C++ APIs. There is a [PR with a proposed fix](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3371). 
  The review of this PR is planned for 1.10. Discussion to be continued in the PR.


### [PR 3344](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3344): New version converter tests

Action item: complete review of the PR in time for the upcoming release.

### [PR 3484](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3484): Accumulate attribute for scatter/gather ops

The PR addresses the question of duplicate indices in scatter/gather ops. The existing spec
of the scatter op assumes/requires that there are no duplicate indices: two or more updates to the
same index-location is not supported. The PR proposes to add a boolean attribute "accumulate"
that indicates that all the updates to the same index-location should be summed up.
For example, this is the desired behavior when a sparse matrix multiplication is realized
via a sequence of updates.

The discussion raised a few questions to be addressed by the PR:
* It is unclear why this is relevant to Gather ops.
* The PR should explain the meaning of the "accumulate" attribute more precisely
and completely.

Another point mentioned was that the assumption/requirement that there are no duplicate
indices is not explicit in all op documentations (though it does appear in some cases,
for example in the documentation of "ScatterND"). We decided that the specification
should clarify this for all ops.

### [PR 3557](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3557): Grid sampler op

This PR proposes a new "GridSampler" op. This op is available in PyTorch.
There have been multiple requests to add this op to the ONNX spec.
We concluded that there was enough demand to justify adding this op
to the spec. However, the op is not targetted for the upcoming release.

There was a question whether an implementation of the op in Python
(reference implementation) is required as part of the test-case for
complex ops, or if just the data could be provided. The conclusion
was that a reference implementation is desirable and should be added
if possible with reasonable effort. But, in exceptional cases, we can
waive the requirement for reference implementation.

### [PR 3558](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3558): CastLike op

This PR introduces a new op, which casts one input to have the same type
as a second input. The motivation for this op is that this is commonly
required when implementing the function body for several ops that
support multiple precisions (eg., bfloat, float16, float, and double).
It is commonly required to cast a constant, say 0.5, to have the
same type as the input.

We decided to accept the op for the current release. The PR must be
updated to add test-cases.

### Issue: treatment of "reflect" attribute in "Pad" op

Rajeev Rao pointed out that that the description of the "reflect" attribute
in the "Pad" op is incomplete and suggested that it should be clarified
to mention two points. First, reflection treats the center of the margin
pixels as the point of reflection. If index 0 represents the margin pixel,
the reflected value at index -1 will be the same as the value at index 1.
The second point relates to what happens when the padding size exceeds the
size of the original tensor. The reflected value is obtained by performing
multiple reflections, in this case. 

We agreed that the examples in the op spec are consistent with the above
interpretation, and that the specification should be clarified in this
regard. Rajeev Rao agreed to create a PR to clarify this.

### Proposal for a new "Dim" op

There was a proposal to add a new "Dim" op, one that effectively returns
the size of an input tensor along a specified axis. This is a primitive
operation required in several scenarios. This can be computed by
performing a Shape operation, followed by a Slice operation.
We agreed to introduce it as a function op.
