# Thursday August 5, 2021 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Infrastructure SIG updates
* [PR 3484](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3484): Add `reduction` attribute to Scatter style ops
* [PR 3625](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3625): Add `coordinate_transformation_mode` to RoiAlign
* [PR 3607](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3607): Extending `If`, `Loop`, and `Identity` ops to support `optional` type
* [PR 3557](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3557): Add GridSample Operator


## Attendees 

* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Chun-Wei (Jacky) Chen (Microsoft)
* Evgeny Lazarev (Intel)
* Scott Cyphers (Lightmatter)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Shubham Bhokare (Microsoft)

## Notes

### Infrastructure SIG updates

* ONNX version 1.10 was released on July 31, 2021
* Infrastructure SIG is working to enable lazy-loading of ONNX model data stored in external files. 
Currently, all data from external files is loaded by helpers when loading a model. However, in many 
scenarios (e.g. shape-inference),  the actual tensor data is not needed in memory. In order to 
speed up model processing these values can be loaded on demand, when accessing them.


### [PR 3484](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3484): Add `reduction` attribute to Scatter style ops

This pull request adds an attribute `reduction` to `Scatter*` operations, which adds support for duplicate
values in indices.  Instead of arbitrarily picking a single update value, which leads to undefined 
behaviour, multiple updated can be accumulated using a reduction function (`add` or `mul`).
Previous behaviour is available by not specifying a value for the `reduction` atrribute.

Shubham, the author of the PR incorporated changes based on code review.

We discussed the motivation for this change. The proposed behaviour is similar to 
[PyTorch Scatter](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.Tensor.scatter_.html).
With the proposed changes behaviour of scatter with duplicate indices is well defined. 

Evgeny suggested that we could consider making this a separate operation.


### [PR 3625](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3625): Add `coordinate_transformation_mode` to RoiAlign

This pull request addresses a minor bug introduced with the original specification of `RoiAlign`. 
With the proposed change the operator will default to shift the input coordinates by -0.5 pixel. 
This is the recommended behaviour and matches the PyTorch implementation and 
[literature source](https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06870). 
Original behaviour is available for backward compatibility. 

We discussed the consequences of changing the default of an existing operator.
PyTorch also had this bug, they also support both behaviours now.

We agreed that changing the default is a valuable fix.

### [PR 3607](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3607): Extending `If`, `Loop`, and `Identity` ops to support `optional` type

This pull request extends the input types supported by the operations `If`, `Loop`, and `Identity`. 
This is a minor change and no objections were raised.

This case demonstrates a more general problem of a growing number of ONNX types and meta types (`Sequence`, `Optional`).
Some operators (e.g. `Identity`) are truly polymorphic and will have to change with every addition of a new type.
This also leads to very long and unreadable lists of types in the specification.

We should consider if its possible to define more generic type groups 
(e.g. `FLOATS`, `INTS`, `ALL`, `Optional(ALL)`, etc.).

Alternatively we could define types supported by a specific operation a named alias (`X`), for example
`X=[INT16, INT32], Sequence(X), Optional(X), Optional(Sequence(X))`.

Using one of these approaches would make the specification more readable and compact.

Every time we add a new type to ONNX, we also update the IR version, which can be used to detect list of supported
types.

### [PR 3557](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/3557): Add `GridSample` Operator

`GridSample` operator was not ready for 1.10 release. 
This operator is currently being tested in ONNX Runtime as a `contrib` operator.
