# Thursday, January 27, 2022 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Updates from the Infrastructure SIG
* Upcoming ONNX release
* Mixed precision representation (Rodolfo G Esteves, Intel)
* ONNX Model provenance (Rodolfo G Esteves, Intel)
* Issues raised by Nvidia (Kevin Chen  and Dilip Sequeira)

## Attendees 

* Ashwini Khade (Microsoft)
* Bhargavi Karumanchi (Intel)
* Chun-Wei (Jacky) Chen (Microsoft)
* Dilip Sequeira (Nvidia)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Gary Miguel (Microsoft)
* GeorgeN
* Kevin Chen (Nvidia)
* Liqun Fu 
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Przemyslaw Wysocki (Intel)
* Ria Cheruvu (Intel)
* Rodolfo G Esteves (Intel)
* Scott Cyphers (Lightmatter) 

## Notes

### Infrastructure SIG updates

Next release of ONNX, version 1.11 is scheduled for early February, with a code-freeze date of Jan 31.
Python 3.6 will be deprecated after the current release (in version 1.12).

### ONNX Model Provenance and Mixed precision representation

Rodolfo Esteves, Bhargavi Karumanchi, and Ria Cheruvu (Intel) made a presentation on the topic of ONNX model provenance and mixed precision representation. The goals of this work is to enrich and structure metadata (which is to be machine-readable) to aid model provenance tracking, discoverability of models on hubs, annotation of fairness/Ethical AI considerations and other concerns (in an extensible manner). Please see issue
[Issue 3958](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/3958) for more details.

The presentation talked about metadata fields to be added to capture model provenance and mixed
precision representation and the metadata management mechanics, and the augmentation of markdown
data with machine-readable frontmatter blocks (serializing an RDF fragment) and usecases such
as query language to query such metadata.

### Nvidia proposals for ops and functions

Kevin Chen and Dilip Sequeira from Nvidia discussed the notion of functions in ONNX and
discussed new operator proposals to help define more ops as functions. See this
[document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16kpz72EaYd_MQq0dTZlxYXXypPAO6bzomB41stI_g1I) for
more information.

An operator _iota_ was proposed as a way to help define functions such as _trilu_.
There was a discussion whether the existing _range_ op was sufficient
to define _trilu_ as a function. There was agreement that it was useful to enable
ops such as _trilu_ to be defined as a function. But the details of the exact
function definition, and the new primitive ops needed to support such functions,
remains to be worked out.

There was also a discussion about the nature of functions in the ONNX standard.
The discussion highlighted that having better documentation of these concepts,
as they currently exist, would be useful (with possible room for improvements in
the design, going forward).

There was not enough time to discuss all items in the above document, and the remaining
items will be discussed in a future meeting.


