# Thursday, May 26, 2022 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* [PR 4126](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4126): Resize-17: Antialiasing, axes and keep_aspect_ratio_policy
* [PR 4190](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4190): CenterCropPad:
* Working with PR reviewers and maintainers (Welcome to Przemek and others)
* Problem with abandoned PRs
* Mechanism to get feedback from hardware vendors

## Attendees 

* Alexandre Eichenberger (IBM)
* Ettore Tiotto (IBM)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Przemyslaw Wysocki (Intel)
* Scott Cyphers (Lightmatter)
* Yuan Yao (Nvidia)

## Notes

### [PR 4126](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4126): Resize-17

Michal summarized this PR (introduced by Joaquin). The PR extends the existing Resize
op by adding (i) an attribute to indicate whether an antialiasing filter should be used when
downscaling with linear and cubic interpolation modes, (ii) an `axes` attribute
to indicate that only a subset of the dimensions should be scaled, and (iii) a
`keep_aspect_ratio_policy` to indicate whether the aspect ratio should be
preserved, and if so, whether the output should be no smaller than the provided
sizes or no larger than the provided sizes. No concern or issue with the PR was raised.
The PR is expected to be merged in due course.

### [PR 4190](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/4190): CenterCropPad
This PR is still in draft mode. It introduces a CenterCropPad as a new function
op. It also extends existing ops Pad and Shape to support an `axes` to enable
defining CenterCropPad as a function. The PR was noted as having some issues
that need to be resolved first. Specifically, it assumes that the shape of
an input will be statically known and can be used in defining the function
body, which is not the case.

### Welcome to Przemek

Przemyslaw Wysocki (Intel) has volunteered to help with ONNX, in particular
with reviewing ONNX PRs. Thanks and welcome Przemek!

### Problem with abandoned PRs

Przemek has compiled a list of PRs that have not been active in a while.
There was a question of what to do with these PRs. Since the list is not
very long, the plan is for us to look at the PRs on a case-by-case basis
and determine whether they can be closed. 

### Mechanism to get feedback from hardware vendors

The ONNX spec is silent on the behavior of certain ops in certain edge cases.
For example, the behavior of ops in the case of overflow or underflow,
or the behavior of integer division when the result is negative (is the
results rounded down or rounded towards zero?), or the behavior of
casting from float to bfloat16 (is it based on truncation or rounding,
does it preserve NaN values, etc.) While it is acceptable for the ONNX spec
to say that the behavior is undefined in certain cases, this choice should
be made consciously and explicitly.

It was decided to have a mailing list of contacts from hardware vendors
who would be willing to respond with opinions or concerns with proposals to
resolve such ambiguities in the spec, and use this mailing list to make
advance on these issues.

