# Thursday, May 4th, 2023 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Infra SIG Updates
* Airbus Collaboration
* ONNX Meetup Announcement
* GeLU as a Function Operator
* `SlidingWindowInferer` operator


## Attendees

* Liqun Fu (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Chun-Wei (Jacky) Chen (Microsoft)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Scott Cyphers (Lightmatter)
* Xavier Dupré (Microsoft)
* Aaron Bockover (Microsoft)


## Notes

### Infra SIG Updates

ONNX will now install the Protocol Buffers library, if it is not available on the user system.


### Airbus Collaboration

Airbus has expressed interest in utilizing ONNX for their specific use cases in
the airplane industry. They highlighted the need for a standardized way to represent
models and identified ONNX as a suitable candidate. However, they noted that ONNX's 
existing operator specifications are not strict enough for their applications. 
They require a detailed definition of all operators with precise mathematical formulas.

The potential collaboration with Airbus is projected to last a few years and the company
has expressed their willingness to contribute. However, there may be additional legal
restrictions concerning standards utilized in the aviation industry. 

I would be beneficial to the ONNX standard to define operators strictly, especially if
the mathematical formulas were defined using a language that can also be employed 
in code for testing and similar processes.


## ONNX Meetup Announcement

An ONNX Meetup has been scheduled for June 28th, 2023. 
During this event, we will present an update from the Operators SIG.
We discussed some topics that we could cover during the presentation.

The ONNX Roadmap meetings have resulted in a few recommendations, 
including the addition of extra numerical formats to ONNX and a standardized way
to represent more quantized operators. was identified as a need. 
Furthermore, operators related to the Attention mechanism are a good candidate for
addition to the ONNX standard.


## GeLU as a Function Operator

A PR was created with an implementation of GeLU as an ONNX function operator 
(see [PR #5277](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5277)). 
Reference implementations are expected to be added to this PR. 

Please review the PR and provide feedback.


### `SlidingWindowInferer` pre- and post-processing operator

In response to the issue (see [Issue #5270](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/5270)), 
Liqun Fu has expressed willingness to create a PR for the `SlidingWindowInferer` 
pre- and post-processing (PNP) operator. 

This operator plays an important role in computer vision applications, where models
are usually trained with input data divided into patches due to GPU memory limitations.
During the inference stage, input images are also divided into patches.
Patrial outputs from a model are then aggregated with an importance weight 
to produce the final output that covers the whole input range. 

The `SlidingWindowInferer` operator will slide a window across the image, 
execute a computation for each window, and then aggregate the results.

Liqun Fu will create a PR for the `SlidingWindowInferer` operator.

### dMetrics Collaboration

dMetrics, an AI company working on Natural Language Processing applications
expressed interest in adding different sizes of floats as a new data type to ONNX. 

Some of these are being already experimented with in ONNX Runtime.
