# Thursday, March 28th, 2024 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Infrastructure SIG updates
* ONNX community meetup and plans for the next release
* Development plans for the Version Converter
* [PR 5970](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5970): Excluding test data from ONNX package
* [PR 5964](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5964): Swish operator function
* Security and usage implications of merged [PR 5917](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5917)

## Attendees

* Aditya Goel (Quantco)
* Alexandre Eichenberger (IBM)
* Andreas Fehlner (TRUMPF)
* Charles Volzka (IBM)
* Gal Hubara Agam (Nvidia)
* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Yuan Yao (Nvidia)

### Infrastructure SIG updates

ONNX Release 1.16 is out. There were some challenges with conda pypi, which have been resolved.
C++ 17 upgrade required some build fixes for conda pypi.

There was a security-related patch in February. Andreas and Alexandre brought up the question
of patch release policy, especially when security vulnerabilities are identified. ONNX does
produce patch releases as needed. The current practice is that the release manager who
produced a particular release also manages patch releases for that version (assuming that
they are willing and able to do so). In this particular instance, the security bug fix
happened quite close to the deadline for the next release, and, hence, no separate
patch release was produced.

### ONNX community meetup and plans for the next release

The annual ONNX community meetup will happen end of June (June 28th). There was a discussion
of whether there should be another release of ONNX before the meetup and whether there
were any prominent features worth targetting for such a release. There was no specific
conclusion. Timing wise, a June release seems a bit rushed (usually we have around 4
months between releases). The discussion of implementation plans is covered in the next
item.

### Development plans for the Version Converter

Rama described some of the issues with the version converter and a proposed plan for
addressing these. The existing version converter does not handle model-local functions.
One of the technical challenges in updating the version converter to handle model-local
functions is that the version-converter logic depends on type-information as well as
attribute-value information, both of which may be absent from a model-local function.
Specifically, a model-local function may be called from different places within the
given model with different input types and different attribute values.

The plan is to support version-conversion of _specialized_ model-local functions
that do have known input types and do not have attribute-parameter references
internally. Any model can be converted to have only specialized model-local functions
by cloning functions and specializing them. This can make use of the recently
introduced facility in IR version 10 to support overloaded functions.

### [PR 5970](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5970): Excluding test data from ONNX package

The above PR proposes to remove test data from the published ONNX package, which dramatically
decreases the size of the ONNX package. This is because most users do not care about the test
data. Michal mentioned that there were users who relied on this data to test their implementations.
He responded to the PR. The plan was to continue the discussion in the PR.

### Security and usage implications of merged [PR 5917](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5917)

There was a discussion of the recent security vulnerability patch. The ONNX model specification
allows for the use of external tensors, which are tensor data stored in separate files
distinct from the model file. This means that any inference using a given model will read
the data stored in these external tensor files. For security reasons, the ONNX specification
requires these external tensor files be in the same folder as the model file (or within
a subfolder contained in that folder transitively). This ensures that a model supplied 
by some third-party cannot be used to read sensitive data from some other file and leak
it (via its output). The previous code did not handle relative-paths that used ".."
as a way to access files outside the root folder (containing the model).

However, one of the limitation of the existing implementation is that it does not make
it easy to load such external tensor data on demand. The helper functions that load
these tensors take a parameter specifying the root-folder to be used (and it becomes
the caller's responsibility to pass in the correct value). A proposal introduced
was that when an ONNX model is loaded (via the python load API), it should remember
the root-folder (as part of the metadata associated with an external-tensor) and use
it instead, provided that such an implementation is considered acceptable from a
security perspective.
