# ONNX Operators SIG meeting
# Thursday, Aug 22nd, 2024 at 9:00am PST

## Agenda

* Next Release (1.17)
* Arch/Infra SIG Update
* [FP4 Data Type PR](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/6283)
* BF16 support in ONNX Ops

## Attendees

* Ganesan Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Liqun Fu (Microsoft)
* Michal Karzynski (Intel)
* Raghavan Naresh Sarangapani (Intel)
* Ramakrishnan Sivakumar (AMD)
* Sunny Anand (IBM)
* Yuan Yao (Nvidia)

## Meeting minutes

### Next Release (1.17)

The release manager Raghavan mentioned that the Release Candidate was expected
soon. The primary pending issue was a few outdated invalid URLs failing the URL
check in CI. The URLs were to older pytorch/caffe2 versions illustrating the
implementation of an ONNX backend. The conclusion was to replace the reference
to main branch with specific versions containing the relevant code.

* Arch/Infra SIG Update

Liqun described the issue [6267](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/6267#issuecomment-2269555846) and the workaround. See also the
discussion [here](https://github.com/actions/runner-images/issues/10396).
This issue is due to a breaking change in
[visualstudio](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/releases/2022/release-notes-v17.10)


### [FP4 Data Type PR](https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/6283)

Yuan Yao has this PR ready to add new 4-bit float types to ONNX. There was a discussion about
whether merging this PR would interfere with the upcoming 1.17 release. The conclusion was
that it should not. Yuan said that he would split the PR into two parts to simplify things.

### BF16 support in ONNX Ops

Krishna brought up the issue of making the bfloat16 support complete in ONNX by allowing
bfloat16 inputs for all ops where it was appropriate. However, Thiago did have a PR a few
months back to do exactly this. It was unclear which ops currently lack bfloat16 support.
Krishna will follow up.

### Opens

Yuan brought up the use of the special value zero in the target shape in a Reshape op to
propagate an existing dimension as-is. This special treatment can complicate some shape
inference, analysis, and optimization when some of the target shape values are statically
unknown. He suggested that eliminating it would be helpful. However, this does introduce
some backward-compatibility challenges. On the other hand, it is really not a problem
if the target shape is statically known. And if it is not, the difficulties can not be
eliminated by using alternative encoding of the logic. No specific conclusion was reached.
