<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday July 10, 2019 at 9:00am-10:00am PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Introduction
* Logistics
    * Meet every other Wed
    * Alternate times, 9am and 6pm Pacific Time
* SIG Goals
    * Provide guidelines and recommendations for all converters to implement to promote a. consistent quality and clarity across ONNX converters b. ease of understanding and use for ONNX users.
    * Gather community input and feedback to prioritize converter requirements and features
* Discussion topics
    * What is the role of ONNXMLTools? If it should be a wrapper of the other converters, then TF support needs to be added. If not, should it be renamed?
    * Establish quality bar for converters under ONNX, including error messages, documentation and other usability aspects.
    * Converters are best handled within the source framework itself if possible – SIG should define strategy to graduate the various converters
    * Triaging of all convertor issues across the repos.
    * Standard tests and validation for backend, frontend, and potentially training
    * Centralized reporting for all converters (status, coverage, versions, etc.)
    * Converter pain points … what is not working
    * Things users are looking for in the future

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (Microsoft)
* Prasanth Pulavarthi (Microsoft)
* Thomas Truong (IBM)
* Winnie Tsang (IBM)
* Tian Jin (IBM)
* Svetlana Levitan (IBM)

## Notes
* We need to have broader based participation from various converters. The meeting notice didn't seem delivered to entire converters community. See action #1.
* We discussed the role of ONNXMLTools, currently a wrapper of others. Option 1 is to wrap all converters under ONNXMLTools. Option 2 is to make converters in ONNXMLTools as indivdual projects. Option 2 is preferred to simplify code and dependencies. Need to reach out to ONNXMLTools community to discuss. See action #2.
* Agreed best practices in error messages, documentation and usability should be established and documented eventually for all converters. This will be an ongoing effort, likely driven by existing converters.
* Agreed converters are best handled in source framework. Certain converters however would stay independent for long. Will continue to discuss strategy and guidelines to graduate converters.
* Need to investigate whether standardized frontend tests make sense. See action #3.
* Agreed to evaluate the new training proposal, https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2038, from the converters perspective. See action #4.
* We will look into a general reporting mechanism to easily show the latest state (status, coverage, issues, versions, etc) for all converters. Does onnx/backend-scoreboard help? See action #5
* We would like to have an initial group of contributors (to converters SIG).

## Action items
* 1: Guenther, Chin, Prasanth - reach out to Keras, CoreML, and other converter developers, post meeting notes and notification to onnx/lobby gitter
* 2: Guenther - invite ONNXMLTools lead to attend next SIG meeting
* 3: Guenther - look into options for standardized frontend tests for all converters
* 4: Chin, Guenther - investigate the feasibility of supporting ONNX training from ONNX to tf and from tf to ONNX
* 5: Winnie, Chin - investigate options to provide general converter reporting/dashboard
* Next meeting:
    * Discuss ONNXMLTools options
    * Review findings in standardized frontend tests
    * Discuss how to support ONNX training in converters
    * Review findings in general converter reporting/dashboard (onnx/backend-scoreboard?)
    * Discuss contributor list
    * Collect pain points, desired features, new discusion topics from all converters
