<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Wednesday July 24, 2019 at 5:00pm-6:00pm PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Introduction
* Discussion topics
    * Discuss ONNXMLTools options
    * Review findings in standardized frontend tests
    * Discuss how to support ONNX training in converters
    * Review findings in general converter reporting/dashboard
    * Discuss contributor list
    * Collect pain points, desired features, new discussion topics from all converters

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Prasanth Pulavarthi (Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Svetlana Levitan (IBM)
* Emma Ning (mltools, Microsoft)
* Akin Solomon (Snapdragon, Qualcomm)
* Spandan Tiwari (pytorch, Microsoft)
* G. Ramalingam (Microsoft)
* Vinitra Swamy (Keras, Microsoft)
* Young (sorry, did not catch full name, Windows ML, Microsoft)
* Guyan
* Yue-Sheng Liu

## Notes
* We got much broader based participation from various converters, including Tensorflow, Pytorch, MLTools, Keras, Snapdragon, Windows ML.
* We talked about what "converter" means in ONNX. Currently we take the broadest definition, converting ONNX format from or to any framework or backend. Therefore, backends like onnx runtime and Habana are on the list. We should firm up our definition and publish the list on the sigs repo.
* Discussed a possible new repo, onnx/converters, to keep common issues, docs, and artifacts for all converters, and decided to use onnx/sigs with "converters" label to keep sigs related activities/assets together.
* Discussed ONNXMLTools' role and recommended only one converter for each framework. ONNXMLTools will continue to serve existing users and multiple converters like Spark ML and LightGBM before they become individual converter projects.
* The standardized frontend test is currently not recommended because each framework often has unique implementation of operators.
* The onnx-tf converter team has looked into the ONNX training proposal and written a prototype to validate the design. The tf-onnx converter team will evaluate the feasibility of the proposal and provide update in two weeks.
* We shared findings on onnx/backend-scoreboard and will continue to investigate better ways to construct the converters dashboard.
* We briefly shared pain points like unsupported data types and attributes. Will continue to discuess and eventually make general recommendations.

## Action items
* 1: Guenther: investigate the feasibility of supporting ONNX training from tf to ONNX
* 2: Chin: draft general docs to clarify "converter", list of converters, and other agreed statements
* 3: Winnie: investigate options to provide general converter reporting/dashboard
