<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Thursday Sept 5, 2019 at 5:00-6:00pm PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Greetings!
* Discussion topics
    * How to handle python loops and lists? (Preferred Networks)
    * Use of custom attributes in converters (GraphCore)
    * Review existing issues
        * Evaluate training proposal
        * Converters dashboard
        * Deprecated operators
        * Dynamic/unknown shape and rank in inputs
        * ONNX-ML operators
    * New issues or features...

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Spandan Tiwari (pytorch, Microsoft)
* Shinichiro Hamaji (chainer, Preferred Networks)
* Thomas Truong (IBM)
* Jignesh Parmar (tf2onnx, Microsoft)

## Notes
* Shinichiro presented the custom ops in chainer compiler that represent python list/loop in ONNX graph, https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UkvE_8wHjGFnmQfD4l5loQHAMM37v29m1U4oAYOVRDc/edit#slide=id.p. The active ONNX PR #2249 has a number of sequence related ops that covered a subset of presented custom ops, and will be included in the upcoming 1.6 release. Additional sequence ops, as indicated in the presentation/doc, could potentially be added as separate PRs.
* The Sequence type is moving (promoted) to the onnx domain from onnx-ml in release 1.6. Therefore we suggest that all converters plan to support it.
* No update on the ONNX training proposal. Will follow up with the frontend converters (Tensorflow and Pytorch) and backend (GraphCore) next meeting.
* The detailed coverage dashboard is recommended for backend converters but optional for frontend converters. A landing page to view all converters should be constructed providing high level summary and links to detailed reports.
* Reviewed and agreed the recommendation for handling deprecated operators. In short, frontend converters do not use deprecated ops (use the replacement instead), and backend converters either rely on the default ONNX checker to throw exception or handle with the previous definition.
* The converters worked on by today's attendees do not support ONNX-ML operators. We would like to know which converters currently do and leverage their use cases and unit tests whenever possible.
* Did not find a practical use case for unknown rank inputs. Would like to get feedback from additional converters to make a sensible suggestion.
* A new issue was brought up, how to support different system configuration or backend framework versions between the conversion and execution servers?

## Action items
* 1: Investigate the feasibility of supporting ONNX training from tf and pytorch to ONNX
* 2: Continue to investigate the converter reporting/dashboard
* 3. Look for possible use cases for unknown rank inputs
* 4. Look into unit tests for unknown shape inputs
