# Thursday Sept 19, 2019 at 9:00-10:00am PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Greetings! 
* Discussion topics
    * Sequence ops 
    * Training proposal update and review
    * ML ops
    * Inputs with unknown ranks
    * Support different system configurations
    * TFLite converter?
    * Use of custom attributes in converters

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Svetlana Levitan (IBM)

## Notes
* We found no unit tests for the sequence ops at the operator level and will follow up to ensure standardized tests available for converters to support it.
* The ONNX training proposal is consolidated into one huge PR, https://github.com/onnx/sigs/issues/12. Many SIGs, including converters, are invited to review the PR in next WG meeting. We need some frontend converters such as TF and Pytorch to evaluate the feasibility of producing the training info described in the proposal.
* The ML ops are currently not processed in TF converters. We found no unit tests for them. We would like to learn which converters have ML ops support and suggest unit test contribution.
* We have not seen any practical use of unknown input ranks. We would suggest the broader ONNX community to identify and share some use cases either in tests or zoo for clarity.
* The backend converters might have to support different system configurations for optimization, for ex, cpu vs gpu, between the conversion and execution servers. Will continue the discussion.
* Do we want to start a new TFLite converter? Currently don't see the need since all TFLite models are essentially TF models.

## Action items
* 1: Investigate the feasibility of supporting ONNX training from tf and pytorch to ONNX
* 2: Continue to investigate the converter reporting/dashboard
* 3. Look for possible use cases for unknown rank inputs
* 4. Look into unit tests for unknown shape inputs
