<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Thursday Oct 24, 2019 at 10:00-11:00am PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Greetings!
* Discussion topics
    * Training proposal update and planning
    * How to support mulitple versions of a framework

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Svetlana Lavitan (IBM)

## Notes
* We reviewed the training proposal effects doc and discussed the potential impacts and open issues for converters today. In addition to the high level description in the original doc, these are the issues to be addressed (summary of our past two meetings):
    * Frontend converter (exporter)
       * Might need additional ops or modify existing ones (split…) for training, for ex. constant folding, data augmentation
       * The user experience is new and needs clarification, for ex. taking possible inputs in python function, savedmodel, checkpoint for TF
       * How to capture training loops and optimizers in Pytorch?
       * How to decide which parameters are trainable (constant vs variable)?
       * Does a training graph must have a backward graph with gradient operators?
       * Can user provide a subgraph instead of pre-defined ONNX loss functions and optimizers (maybe after v1)?
    * Backend converter (importer)
       * Need to read from function proto instead of graph proto in a training IR
       * Need to parse TrainingInfo proto and algorithm
       * How to convert and verify loss functions?
       * How to convert and verify optimizers?
       * What to do with gradient operators?
       * How to support multiple import modes, training, inference, or both?
* We believe the training proposal PR can be merged with sufficient self unit tests and some form of backend validation such as in ONNX Runtime.
* We would suggest the training working group to produce a sample trainable ONNX file for mnist. It will serve the frontend converters as a target pb file to produce from the source framework. And it can be the starting point for backend converters to generate a trainable model in various frameworks or runtimes to execute the model training.

## Action items
* 1: Investigate the feasibility of supporting ONNX training from pytorch and Tensorflow
* 2: Investigate and eventually propose a good design for frontend converters to work with ONNX training
