# Friday Dec 6, 2019 at 10:30-11:30am PST
* online: https://ibm.webex.com/join/chhuang
* call-in: 1-844-531-0958, 927 169 571 #

## Agenda
* Greetings! 
* Discussion topics
    * Workshop recap
    * Training proposal update and planning
    * Inputs with unknown shapes unit tests
    * Backend scoreboard
    * How to support mulitple versions of a framework 

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Svetlana Lavitan (IBM)
* Emma Ning (mltools, Microsoft)
* Jason Plurad (IBM)

## Notes
* Emma provided a quick update on workshop converters session and stated training seems a hot topic.
* We would like to work on concrete ONNX Training end-to-end scenarios for converters. Emma, Guenther, and Chin all commented for the respective converters, understanding the importance of Training support yet needing clearer directions on priority due to limited resources. As far as the timeline for converters to include training, we all think it is too early to make that estimates. We will collect more inputs from orgainization and investigate more closely with the training proposal and provide updates next time.
* The standard ONNX unit test for backend doesn't cover the unknown tensor shapes as inputs case. The frontend converters already faced this common use case and managed to support it. We would like to have some unit tests in ONNX to verify and ensure the readiness for the backend. The onnx-tf converter team will look into this and provide updates.
* The backend scoreboard, http://onnx.ai/backend-scoreboard/index.html, is provided by the operators SIG team. We encourage all backend converters to join the scoreboard.
* We discussed how to support multiple versions of frameworks. Guenther shared the tf-onnx approach which includes TF 1.x and TF 2.0 in the same package (git branch) and use conditional statements whenever needed, and stated the differences between versions are so far minimum. Chin memtioned that the onnx-tf community considered two approached and will likely go with a separate git branch for TF 1.x due to code simplicity, cleanliness, and maintainability in the long team, knowning new code might need to be added to multiple branches. 

## Action items
* 1: Investigate the user experience and technical requirements of supporting ONNX training from pytorch, Tensorflow, and others
* 2: Develop unit tests for unknown tensor shapes as inputs
* 3: Connect Graphcore and Microsoft on Pytorch Training efforts
