<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Thursday Jan 16, 2020 10:45-11:30am PST
* https://zoom.us/j/7376656864

## Agenda
* Greetings!
* Discussion topics
    * Training proposal update and planning
    * Backend scoreboard
    * How to support mulitple versions of a framework
    * Sequence ops handling
    * Channel first vs channel last

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Svetlana Lavitan (IBM)
* Thomas Truong (IBM)

## Notes
* We would like to clearly sych up on what converters need to provide to support ONNX Training end-to-end scenarios. Guenther commented no changes seem to the frontend converters, just producing the inference graph as is, and the runtimes would add the necessary training data to make the model trainable. Chin thought the frontend converters would generate some training data, such as optimizers, loss functions, and gradient operators, into the onnx file. We will raise the question and get clarification on the expected behaviors in the next training WG meeting.
* The onnx-tf converter team developed unit tests for backend to verify the coverage for the unknown tensor shapes as inputs. The side effect in the case for Tensorflow is that the converted graph becomes much larger.
* We continue to monitor the backend scoreboard, http://onnx.ai/backend-scoreboard/index.html, and hope more converters to join the scoreboard.
* Both frontend and backend Tensorflow converters must support multiple versions, tf 1.x and tf 2.x, in the foreseeable future. Different approaches are taken for development, CI, and maintenance based on specific requirements and feasibility.
* The ONNX sequence allows different tensor shapes in a sequence. We would like to learn the use cases and how some backend converters convert a sequence into framework operators.
* Channel first (NCHW) vs channel last (NHWC) is something a lot of converters might need to deals with. When a framework such as tensorflow has the different default (NHWC) from ONNX (NCHW), data conversion needs to be properly included to ensure accuracy as well as minimal performance impact.

## Action items
* 1: Identify the user experience and technical requirements of supporting ONNX training for frontend and backend converters.
* 2: Investigate and share NCHW vs NHWC handling
