# Friday Sept 11, 2020 10:30-11:30am PST
* https://zoom.us/j/7376656864

## Agenda
* Greetings! 
* Discussion topics
    * Converters project updates
    * Custom ops support
    * Loop, nested, visualization
    * Sequence type inputs
    * Wishlist 

## Attendees 
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf, IBM)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf-onnx, Microsoft)
* Kevin Chen (Nvidia)
* Winnie Tsang (onnx-tf, IBM)

## Notes
* ONNX-TF converter: work on Tensorflow native suppport and user options in target environments (gpu vs cpu) and automatic data type conversion
* Tensor-rt: continue to add op support for opset 12 and 13, except training ops
* Custom ops are typically very specific to a framework, not portable to other frameworks and runtimes. Two use cases should be considered to make custom ops more practical and useable: 1. execute the op in a runtime 2. convert the op to another op or ops in a framework. While the custom ops can be distinguished by namespace/domain name, it is difficult to identify their expected behaviors. We believe the use of custom ops is unavoidable since ONNX won't cover all operators in various frameworks. A more portable and repeatable approach should be developed, such as a pluggable execution and clear definition in a common place/repo, so the backend (converters and runtimes) can better support custom ops.
* TF-ONNX produces some custom ops that are supported by ONNX runtime only. ONNX-TF doesn't currently support custom ops.
* Sequence as an input type for a model is not supported in Tensorflow, due to no matching data type for ONNX sequence, a list of tensors with same type, could have different shapes.
* The ONNX backend test runner doens't support sequence as input type, although a new test case being added lately for SequenceInsert. The runner assumes all inputs are tensors, therefore the new test case won't pass for backend converters. An issue is opened, https://github.com/onnx/onnx/issues/2984.
* Loops with nested loops are expected and should be handled properly, especially the initializers could be in outer loops.
* It is not easy to visualize and debug loops and nested loops. ONNX runtime has a utility to dump a subgraph. ONNX has APIs to print a subgraph in text. Would be nice if Netron can support views into subgraphs.
* We would like to come up with a few topics for the upcoming workshop in Oct so broader community can participate and help drive the future direction.
    * better custom ops supporting system
    * more consistency between op schema, doc, and unit tests (we often have to read the code because doc might be wrong)
    * use of checker to ensure model quality and integrity (onnx has one, onnx runtime has another)
