<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Thursday May 7 2021 10:30-11:30 pm PST
* https://zoom.us/j/7376656864?pwd=SjdiaGdvUFFyVXM4OUxTWndYZ2Z1Zz09

## Agenda
* Greetings!
    * Welcome Martin Croome from Greenwaves!
* Discussion topics
    * Greenwaves converts/compiles onnx and tflite models to run on own platform on edge devices
    * List of ONNX converters, https://github.com/onnx/sigs/blob/master/converters/docs/ConvertersList.md, should be updated to reflect the currnet state
    * Converters project updates
      * onnx-tf 1.8 was released in Apr with complete opset 13 support and inference graph based training
      * tf2onnx continues to test with hundreds of models to ensure coverage, at 92% convert rate. Face a major issue with keras to onnx converter so would like depreciate it and use tf2onnx instead based on tf graph. tf2onnx currently has a few optimizers to deal with batch norm and transpose etc. As for lstm/gru, tf2onnx converts to basic onnx ops or lstm/gru, would like to see more models with these ops.
      * onnx-mlir supports onnx to mlir, covering about 2/3 of onnx operators, not mlir to onnx yet. mlir could be a reusable component. we will look into synergy between mlir and converters not only conversion but also optimization.
      * Pytorch to ONNX also tests hundreds of models, converting about 85%. They are on the latest Pytorch and onnx.
      * TFLite to ONNX: seems two solutions there, tf2onnx and tflite2onnx (https://github.com/jackwish/tflite2onnx) tf2onnx converts tflite to tf, no open issues.
      * tensor-rf working on 8.0 release, GA in June
    * Models with external data are supported by tf2onnx (writes constants to separate protobuf files when model is larger than 2GB) and tensor-rt (internal tests, reads initializer files). There is no standard unit test in onnx core, so it is up to individual converters to verify this feature. Use onnx helper whenever possible.
    * NHWC support is still open/undecided in the onnx community. As is, the converters will ensure the data format is correct for the target framework and runtime.
    * There might be multiple solutions to convert keras to onnx and tflite to onnx. We should make sure to have clear message so users know which one to use for their needs.

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf2onnx)
* Kevin Chen (Tensor-RT)
* Martin Croome (Greenwaves)
* Alexandre Eichenberger (onnx-mlir)

## Notes
* Guenther to collect and share Pytorch status in next meeting
