<!--- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 -->

# Friday June 25 2021 10:30-11:30 pm PST
* https://zoom.us/j/7376656864?pwd=SjdiaGdvUFFyVXM4OUxTWndYZ2Z1Zz09

## Agenda
* Greetings!
* Discussion topics
    * Converters project updates
      * tf2onnx is deprecating keras2onnx, supporting Tensorflow 2.5, one issue with a single tensor > 2GB for recommender
      * pytorch to onnx has a new lead, a bit more difficult to track and solve converter issues since it is part of pytorch
      * tensor-rt 8 is projected to be out in two weeks, onnx to tensor-rt will support tensor-rt 8 right after release. tensor-rt could be a backend unit test for tf2onnx. Immediate onnx to tensor-rf supports up to opset 13.
      * onnx-tf is working on opset 14 new and upated ops, and looking into optimization and better NHWC suport. Would like to know whether Tensorflow addons and experimental APIs are supported in Tensorflow 2.5 and beyond.
      * Greenwaves states GRU doesn't seem converted properly from Tensorflow. Guenther to follow up.
    * Opset 14, 15 ops: Bernoulli comes with standard tests that would cause failed case for various backends due to non-deterministic nature of the operator. Backend converters need to filter out such tests or won't pass. BatchNormalization has a new attribute 'training_mode', which seemingly dictating the model is for training or inference. The converters currently have no plans to support it.
    * ONNX roadmap at https://onnx.ai/roadmap, or “onnx-roadmap” slack channel
      * NHWC support: Important for backends that prefer channel last data format. Could be implemented as ONNX utility function. Would like to see the feedback and suggestions from broader ONNX community.
      * Preprocessing: Images are doable, except jpeg. Audio data processing is more difficult. We could start from image processing. In fact, tf2onnx already converts Tensorflow image processing to primitive ONNX ops.
      * Shape inference: We see models with in-compatible input and attribute shapes. This can be detected in ONNX and ONNXRuntime shape inference utility, independent of ONNX checker. The process is in-place for tensor-rt converter and should be considered for others.

## Attendees
* Chin Huang (onnx-tf)
* Guenther Schmuelling (tf2onnx)
* Kevin Chen (Tensor-RT)
* Martin Croome (Greenwaves)

## Notes
