# Attendees
  o	Justin Chu, Microsoft – ONNX Converters  
  o	Freddy Chiu, Intel – ONNX Optimizations  
  o	Haihao Shen, Intel – Neural Compressor architect  
  o	Huang Tai, Intel – Neural Compressor lead  
  o	Feng Tian, Intel – Neural Compressor tech lead  
  o	Ramalingam G, Microsoft – ONNX/ONNX Runtime  

# Charter 
  Documented charter: [sigs/optimizations at main · onnx/sigs (github.com)](https://github.com/onnx/sigs/tree/main/optimizations)  
  -	Scope of interest so far  
    - Graph optimizations  
      - As different execution back-ends have preference for certain graph patterns, optimizing models becomes a non-trivial problem for developers  
      -	Model converters today (e.g. PyTorch => ONNX) may produce different graphs that may not match patterns preferred by back-end to be deployed  
      -	Need: Systematic way to get graph transformations to benefit ONNX community for their respective backend  
      -	Next steps: Review/discuss existing solutions, and define goals to solve this need in the WG  
    - Model compression  
      - Goal is to have Neural Compressor in ONNX repo in ‘24  
      - Neural Compressor v2.4 released: [Release Intel® Neural Compressor v2.4 Release · intel/neural-compressor (github.com) ](https://github.com/intel/neural-compressor/releases/tag/v2.4) 

# Meeting logistics
  - Tentative monthly meeting time: 5PM Tuesdays
  - Action Item: As tentative time conflicts with compiler SIG, Freddy to send out proposed alternatives to avoid conflict if possible
  
# Discussions
  - Optimization challenges and how do we address them?
    - Haihao: Previously had encountered challenges converting low-precision PyTorch models to ONNX. 
      - Justin: Support is on the way – Dynamo does not yet support this
    - Haihao: Packing (e.g. INT4) is still a problem due to different ways to represent. 
      - Rama: there’s no consensus yet in the community on how to pack. Recommendation is to engage in PR and provide feedback. https://github.com/onnx/onnx/pull/5811
    - Haihao: How do we resolve opens regarding data types and flavors not yet available?
      - Rama: Recommendation is to participate in Operators SIG and arch/infrastructure SIG for helping with PR proposals for defining new data types

# Community education and outreach - Not discussed
# Updates - Not discussed
# Opens
  - Co-Chair – Neta Zmora stepped down. Open position for co-chair. Drop me a note if you’re interested!
  - Ramakrishna unable to join because of zoom issues. Can we socialize zoom instructions. 

